Good morning everyone.
Today is Tuesday, April the 28th, and
this is the Money Ball Morning Report.
News by
Benzinga Pro,
charts by TrendSpider,
gamma flows by Menter Q, and forensic
data analysis by tradewave.ai.
Let's take a look at the ES.
We've got upward trending flow on the
200, but here we are well below the
floor
of
the 50 simple moving average.
Are we above the pivot? No. Are we above
the V web? No. Are we above the 50?
No.
So, we've got all these no's and
negative momentum.
It tells us
we've got ourselves a little bit of
noise, potentially a pullback into the
put wall. So, what is the put wall?
Currently, the put wall is near the 200
simple moving average, that's 7170.
I suspect that is where we go. I took a
little trade last night based on the
midpoint
of our
uh 9:30 candlestick formation.
Picked it up right there.
There's our 9:30. Good solid
volume, but not a lot of traders
participated yesterday.
Volume was low, and so this midline
bounce was just enough to get to the 50,
and then that was all she wrote. Notice
that 50
simple moving average is really very
close to our MOC candlestick.
That MOC candle is a big deal.
All right. So, now what are we staring
down?
We're staring down a chart that is
weekly bullish.
So, only the deep dips are going to
give us buy signals
at this juncture.
So, we've already had a dip that came
down from 7220
all the way down to 7100
80-ish,
right? And so, that's given us
a lot of points, almost 40 points.
Could we hold here? Yes. Could we drop
to the prior day's pivot and the Globex
open?
Yes. Could we come to
the put wall? Yes.
My thought is this is clear sideways
formations. So, we wait for the deep
dips. We do not engage. We wait for the
deep dips to go long, or we watch them
try to recover
this MOC candle or the Globex candle,
and if they do it, we resume long. If
they don't, we resume short, and that
is, in general, the failure of around
10, 7208,
something like that. That's where I'm
going to be looking for a short.
If it doesn't work out, my stop will be
very contained, but
with this downward flow, the big
rotation back, notice how Thursday's
excuse me, Friday's formation was very
steep between the opening candle
and the closing candle.
They're really far away from each other.
Yesterday, not so much. And so, we're
going to pull in. On top of that,
Goldman Sachs
put a letter out to
folks that says, "Hey, listen,
we're going to have a fade."
Just like they said at the beginning of
April, we're going to have a bounce, and
now they're warning you ahead of time.
Listen, we're going to have a fade. So,
we are going to see the change of
sentiment,
and we're going to stop trading the dip
buys, and it's going to start being
ones of selling the bounces.
Let's go to the NQ.
Same sort of thing.
Except really,
the whole day was very sideways. The
9:30 candle
pretty important. We just broke it.
Let's borrow this.
Put it up here. Almost the same size as
the prior
9:30 candle. That's very interesting.
But now we've broken it.
They want to find a floor. They do. Do
you see the wicks trying to come up on
the bottom of this? But they've lost
27,000
300.
And so,
the next line is probably 27,200.
27,175.
The put wall is sitting right there at
27,200.
What does this tell us? Well, always
orient yourself.
Where is price relative to everything
else? Well, it's outside of the prior
day. It's no longer in there. So, we're
outside of range
of the prior day, and certainly we're
outside of value of the prior day.
Am I
above the V web? No.
V web trending down. Am I above the 50?
No. The 50's trending down. Am I above
the pivot? No.
And trending down. So, what's the next
road sign?
It's the 200.
They're going to leak their way into
that, 27,175,
and
they might indeed try to bounce off of
it, but the bounce is probably going to
be a fail,
and then we're going to continue to
trend down.
Right?
That's That's what we're looking at.
Some people might say, "Yeah, but
earnings might be great, but
it doesn't Listen,
this is a gamesmanship
event,
right? They move the market where they
want it to go,
and then
do what they want to do.
Goldman wants to look like the good
guys, so they're coming out ahead of
time and going, "Hey,
things are,
you know, going to rotate downwards."
Jane Street, they love being the bad
boys.
You know, uh that place
it reminds me of
a dressed up boiler room is what it
reminds me of. But that's just me. Um
I don't believe you have to manipulate
the market to make money.
But if you do manipulate it, you make a
lot of money, and they made a lot of
money. And so,
they're right on the edge of whether
it's legal.
I think it's totally unethical, but
legal
and decent, and they're
I think they're tremendously indecent.
But, you know, it's about the law, and
so they're right on the edge of the law
manipulating the markets. And I I don't
think you have to do that to make money,
but if you do it, you can make a lot of
money, and they are proving that. But, I
just kicked myself off the soapbox.
That's right.
I'm moving on. Okay.
What's the next candle in play?
It's going to be the 9:30 candle of
Friday. Here we are bouncing off of it.
Right now, that's the high. They're
going to try and hold it, that 27,260.
If they bounce,
I'd like a healthy bounce,
and see the collapse around all this
congestion. That's going to be where I
will position a short, 27,000.
Uh
385.
Okay?
I I like that area. A micro.
Let it dance around all it wants, and
then we move back down. If you are
concerned that a big bounce might occur,
just, you know, position yourself up
here.
Or, take the long, because the 200 is
still up.
I have no idea why my phone is going off
like that. My apologies.
Let's go to
Let's look at the YM.
The YM looks very different than all of
these. Notice, this is convex,
and the other guys are concave.
Right? They're arcing arching over, and
these guys are arching up. Now, it could
be because they failed quite a bit
earlier in the cycle
and they're done and now they're
rotating back up. This also might be
telling us that
you know, the pull backs in the ES and
the NQ are going to be relatively
shallow in the near term.
I don't know, but this is
moving very differently than the others.
I just thought it's interesting to note
and since we're here, why don't we look
at our last index? This one looks more
like the others, but the YM looks
very different. Let's take a look at our
liquidity measure. We know that's
Bitcoin.
Once again,
cannot get to 80,000.
Here they are at 76,000. Let's orient
ourselves.
Where are we in relation to other price?
Well, we're definitely outside of value
if we look at the big picture here.
We're outside of value. We're within
range of this formation,
but
our 200 is far away from us. It's still
trending up.
Our 50's trending down.
Our VWAP is trending down. We're well
below the pivot. This tells us the
bounces are sell zones.
Okay?
That's just what it's telling us.
Bounces are sell zones. And so
that's what we're staring down.
So, what does that mean?
Well,
maybe
the 50 at 77,400
could be a good initial short
if it comes down to 76,750
where we are about now and does not
fade,
time to get out of the trade. Or
if
it bounces
and we take the trade short and it
cannot lose 77,450,
then we get out of the trade as well. It
tells us it's going to move right back
up into the range. The biggest
candlestick of the day,
11:00 a.m.
7:00 a.m.
11:30
1:30
Yeah, this is all mishmashed.
Doesn't really have There's something
else going on here, but it is not
uh it's not time based like that.
So, if we clone this,
we can see that first things first, we
could get to 76,000.
You know, my thought is if you can get
back down here in the 75,000 area,
I'm going to start looking for a long.
Until then,
no bueno.
And
it's showing that liquidity is not
affecting
the motion positively
in a way that we might expect it to.
All the zoomies.
We know which one gives us the zoomies
every day.
It's energy.
I
you know, people who are thinking energy
is in a bear market
not reading the writing on the wall.
We We're going to have some problems,
folks.
Don't want to sound like uh
doom and gloom gal, but we are going to
have ourselves
some problems.
Still the biggest candlestick of record
in days past.
And so, let's get after it.
50% marker at 100
big fat round number,
but look at this. This is consolidation
or inventory building. They're setting
the basis of price to the upside.
And now here we go. Right?
That is
uh something to watch.
Rotation up.
There's huge gamma line at 10150.
And then here go our markers. The call
wall is not It's 110.
The put wall is 85.
This is where I see the floor, but this
price action is rotation upward.
We probably I have not checked the news.
I'm going to guess there's some sort of
you know,
squabble that's a little bit bigger.
Here's the buy. Again, orientation.
Outside of value
and range.
So, we're well outside of the range of
the last two days of motion, but they
have been consolidating and building
inventory there. So, now it's in
distribution.
If it's in distribution, we're going to
hit to 100.
Probably pull back. That's a big fat
round number.
And then the pull back
into $97
gives us a buy zone.
Right? So, that's my take on the market.
If you want to chase this,
you can.
Um but I still see a retrace into
$98.76.
I do. And at at that point, it might
look good, but we are above the VWAP
that is trending up. We're above the 50
that is trending up. We are above the
200 that is trending up. We are above
the the pivot and momentum is trending
up. Now, is momentum long in the tooth?
Yes, but as I love to say,
you know, before the GFC
and the financial crisis of the
aughts,
uh
Google stayed up here in the 97 range
for 8 months.
Yeah. So, overbought means nothing.
Don't use that indicator to tell you to
go in reverse. It's a very bad idea.
Other things have to happen.
This is a validation event, not a
driver.
Okay.
If per happenstance it falls, there's
the pivot at 95
and some change that we would be looking
at. Let's take a look at gold.
Ah, yes. Shocking, I tell you. No, it's
not shocking. I told you.
We've got a fade here in gold.
Let's take a look. Where are we?
Well outside of range. Well outside of
value. What's the trend?
VWAP down. 50 down. 200 down. Well below
the pivot.
All of this trending down. This is an
accelerated motion. Now, 4626
was the line
that I have here that should be an area
to go long. It's already collapsed. You
can see them trying
to get there
for several hours.
Collapsed. We're looking now. We need to
go to the daily chart
to see where we're at.
Could we revert to
the 200 simple moving average?
Could.
Where's that number?
Let's use old supports and maybe this
200 will creep up there. 4330.
It's going to be a nice buy zone. See
this rotation?
This is why it's always good to look at
things on the daily chart. It came right
to the 200, bounced, came right to the
50 and could not breach.
That's a short.
Could not breach. Lower high, lower
lows.
Absolutely textbook formation. You just
have not to lose the plot. A lot of us
lose the plot.
If we go to the 4-hour, let's see what
we have intraday.
This area,
this 4626,
very likely going to be a buy zone
formation.
But
so far it's failing it.
So, it tried to look above that area and
did not and so the next wicks that we
want to watch,
and then 4550.
Potentially,
we will lose both of those.
The put wall is way down here at 4460.
Could we get there?
Absolutely. But, this is sell the
bounce. Listen, you don't even have to
sell the bounce. You could sell below
all the prior candles. You're just going
to have risk.
So,
both of those clearly trending down.
Clearly trending down.
Woah.
All right.
Spy,
same thing.
We just broke the 50.
Here's our 4:00 a.m. candlestick. We're
losing the 4:00 a.m. low.
That number's 713.
Let's measure this
for the globex event
and see what we've got.
Oh, all right.
They could try to bounce right here.
Take a look.
We have
the a pivot, an anchored Vwap,
and prior support.
So, very likely that they shake the
trees,
shake out all the longs that are trying
to get in, but have we can't,
and then
they lift. But, the bounce is very
likely to sell. And so, where is the
sell zone event?
I'm going to put a line
right at
the open of the 3:30 candle.
That is 715.
Right?
That's going to be our
uh
sell zone.
If it doesn't come back for us,
you know, it happens.
Could you take a long here? Well, yeah,
you could, right? We've got
a bullish 200,
an upward to flat 50, a downward Vwap,
and
under the pivot.
So, it looks like a mixed bag, right?
One, two, three, four observations all
around price.
Pivot,
the Vwap,
the 50, the 200. All of it, right there.
Only one of them says
it's potentially bullish, and that's the
200.
It's too far away. So, it bounces,
and then potentially fades.
But, this is a good bounce zone. They're
going to try and bounce it here. If you
have legs to hold it, or you make your
size very small, and it dips,
it could work out.
I don't love it because there's so much
mixed motion.
All right, we are well outside of value.
Value area high is 711.
Value area low, 706.
All right, everyone. That's it for me.
I'll see you on the streams.